# Consensus block signatures spec.


## 1 Block proposal EcdsaProposerSignature

### 1.1 EcdsaProposerSignature description.

Each consensus block proposal includes $EcdsaProposerSignature$ object.

$EcdsaProposerSignature$ is a signature of the proposal using the ECDSA private key $ProposerNodeEcdsaKey$ of the node that made the proposal.

### 1.2 Computing  EcdsaProposerSignature

$EcdsaProposerSignature$ is computed as follows

$$ EcdsaProposerSignature = EcdsaSign(ProposerNodeEcdsaKey, BLAKE3Hash(Proposal)) $$

Here $Blake3Hash$ is 256-bit version of Blake3 hash algorithm.

### 1.3 BlockProposal generation algorithm.

During the proposal phase, the block proposer will:

* generate an unsigned proposal. The unsigned proposal is composed of 
  * proposal JSON header and the list of binary transactions.
  * the list of binary transactions.
* compute $EcdsaProposerSignature$ of the proposal 
* add it to proposal JSON header.


## 2 Block proposal DaThresholdSignature

### 2.1 DaThresholdSignature description.

During the block proposal phase:

* proposal node will submit the proposal to all other nodes
* when a receiving node receives a proposal, it will:
  * sign it, creating $DaThresholdSignatureShare$
  * return $DaThresholdSignatureShare$ to the proposer node.
* when the proposer node receives $2t+1$(11) such signature shares, including its owen share,it will combine the  shares into $DaThresholdSignature$.
* the proposer will then send the $DaThresholdSignature$ to all other nodes.

### 2.1 DaThresholdSignature description.

it also proves the fact, that the proposal is unique, since an honest receiving node will only sign a single proposal for a given block number and proposer index.

### 2.2 Distribution of block proposals.

A proposer will distribute its proposal to other nodes using the following  steps:

1. Distribute the proposal to at least 11 nodes, including itself. 

2. Receive 11 signature shares back.

3. Create  $DaThresholdSignature$ object by gluing the 11 signature shares.

3. Distribute $DaThresholdSignature$ to at least 11 out of 16 nodes.

Node, that a node will not vote for consensus for a particular proposal, unless it received both the proposal itself and its DaThresholdSignature.


### 2.3 Computing DaThresholdSignatureShare.

A $DaThresholdSignatureShare$ is computed as

$$ DaThresholdSignatureShare = EdDSASign(ReceivingNodeSessionKey, BLAKE3Hash(Proposal))$$

Here $ReceivingNodeSessionKey$ is a random $EdDSA$ key generated by each node for each block. 
The meaning of this key is to be stored in RAM of the node, so the node does not need to contact the SGX server for everysignature.

There is a single interaction with the SGX server per blockID, to sign the public part of the EdDSAKey.


$$ EcdsaProposerSignature = EddsaSign(ProposerNodeEcdsaKey, BLAKE3Hash(Proposal)) $$


 of the proposal is simply 11 EdDSA signatures of the proposal. For each signature, a session EdDSA key is used instead of SGX key.
to improve performance.


### 2.3 Computing DaThresholdSignature

A DaThresholdSignature of the proposal is simply 11 EdDSA signatures of the proposal. For each signature, a session EdDSA key is used instead of SGX key.
to improve performance.







